-: Welcome back.
In this step let's verify the load balancer controller logs.
So we've listed the parts from the kube system name space
and we will verify the pods.
So let's come back here and clear this
and say kubectl and hyphen in
(typing)
kubesystem namespace and get pods.
And we should get, we have two pods running here related
to load balancer controller and those will be listed here.
AWS load balancer controller, two pods
and we can copy this pod name and say
(typing) kubectl-n kubesystem
and logs-f and provide the pod name here.
And we can see the logs
of that respective pod and all seems to be shown as info.
So which very clearly says that we don't have any issues
but if we have any issues or any errors it has been showing
so we can see in detail, right?
So but currently it is only
at info things which we really don't need to worry.
And if we want to see for other pod also
so the same command applies for us, which is
provide the kubectl-n kubesystem logs-f
and the pod name, the second pod name.
And now till here everything is completed related
to load balancer controller, right?
But for additional verification
and then for additional understanding,
step 0-4-0-5 and 0-4-0-6 are defined.
And these are completely optional
and those who are highlighted with internals
to understand more about it.
So if you want to move on, skip this and then move on
to next step, our next video you can move on
or if you want to see about what is present internally,
we can also see these things.
So this is about AWS load balancer controller
Kubernetes service account internals.
So this is the service account.
So we will list that out in a YAML format.
(typing) So let me clear this and let's wait
for the service account to be displayed in YAML format.
So APA version is v-1,
kind is service account,
and annotation we know that our role here is outlined here.
And this is managed by "eksctl"
because we created this using "eksctl",
IAM service account command,
create IAM service account command.
And now if you see here name is
AWS load balancer controller,
the service account name, and namespace.
Additionally, it has something called "secret".
So APA version, kind, metadata, and secrets, right?
So inside the secrets you have something called
AWS load balancer controller token.
So this is the important thing
which we need to be worried about.
So get secret and get the value from there.
And then -O YAML.
(typing) So I'll say kubectl-n kubesystem, right?
And I'll say, (typing) get secret.
And this is the secret name.
So we need to take it from here. Copy.
And we will provide -O YAML.
So that will get the secret name YAML format, right?
(typing) So let's run that and you can see you have
lot of information inside this secret.
So secret and you have the CA cert, and also the token.
So the token, what is this token?
So that's the important thing here.
So if you want,
so you can use SSL checker cert decoder to decode the cert.
First thing is we'll go to base64 decode, right?
So we'll faster deal with ca.cert
whatever is present inside this secret.
So this is ca.cert and this is the value.
So let me copy it and paste it here and then decode.
So you got the certificate information here.
And this certification information
So we'll decode one more time using
SSL checker cert decoder.
So we'll go to that browser
and take the base64 decoded value from here
and go to this certificate decoder and decode it, right?
And you'll find here, so this is issued on so and so date
and expires on so and so date,
and common name is Kubernetes,
and common name is Kubernetes.
So this is a standard CA cert present inside this.
So this is CN is a called Kubernetes,
so you can see the entire information here.
So that is fine. So that is not the big thing here.
So inside the secret you have something called "token".
That is the important thing which we need to see.
So first things first is we'll close these things
and one more time we'll open the base64 decoder
and also we'll open the jwt.io
and put them aside and go back to our secret here, right?
And inside secret in the token,
whatever is there in the token field,
you are going to copy that value.
So whenever you have output at your secret in a YAML format
you got all this information, right?
So you're taking this copy of this token
and you are going to do a base64 decode
and take that information, right?
And go here, and put it in that JWT encoded field
and then you'll get that decoded and got that respect to
JWT token.
So you can see here Kubernetes service account,
namespace and kubesystem, and secret name is so and so
and all the information metadata about it,
it is used by AWS load balancer controller.
So why I am showing this JWT, right?
So this load balancer controller, right?
Is creating this AWS application load balancer
whenever the Ingress manifest right here is deployed
and when the k8s API server gets that information,
this load balancer controller watches for Ingress events,
takes that and then creates this
AWS load balancer controller.
So, but what is the authentication mechanism
between this EKS cluster and AWS services?
So if you want to call any AWS APA, right?
Any AWS APA here, this load balancer controller is
going to call the application load balancer APA's
and then create that, respect to load balancer controller.
To call that APA it needs to have
the authentication mechanism, right?
So that authentication mechanism, how it is defined
in between these things is this respect to JWT token.
So on a very high level, if you want to understand the APAs,
the AWS service related APAs
are like service APAs you can call,
and the identity provider here
is going to be your EKS cluster
which is added as identity providers in your IAM, right?
So as part of 0-1-0-2 section itself. So we have added that.
So if you go here and let me go here, right?
And go to the AWS EKS Kubernetes masterclass,
and go to the section 01 and go to 01-02 here.
And if you see the step here, create an associate IAM
or IDC provider for our EKS cluster, right?
So let's understand that in a high level.
We are not going super deep here
but let's try to understand in a high level that
this respect to EKS cluster is added
as a identity provider for the IAM service here.
See? So whatever we have done,
whatever we have run this command, right?
EKS details associate, IAM OIDC provider.
So at that point of time our EKS cluster is
added here as a identity provider.
So which means the identities present inside our EKS cluster
will be able to access the AWS services
based on the role assigned to the identity
inside Kubernetes cluster.
And inside Kubernetes cluster
the identity is nothing but the AWS load balancer
controller service account.
So if you come back here, so the identity inside
the EKS cluster is
AWS load balancer controller service account,
and this is annotated with the IAM role here
which has the permissions defined in this IAM policy.
Based on those IAM policies,
this service whatever is created,
this load balancer controller will use
and whatever the token generated, right?
Using the token it can authenticate against the
services whatever is allowed as part of this IAM policy.
And then create, update, and delete those
application load balancers.
So this much linking is present inside this internally.
So we can go still deep and then see how this
IAM OIDC provider related pictures and all those things.
But for now it becomes super advanced
and then we get confused with
what we are going to learn about the Ingress.
But I just want to ensure that in the internals
of these things, so how this AWS load balancer
controller deployment related pods is able to
create this AWS application load balancer.
Without any authentication, it's not possible, right?
So it need to have some authentication mechanism.
So that authentication mechanism is nothing but here
whatever the token you are seeing.
So using this token and it will be able to
authenticate to those respect to APAs
and then create the application load balancer for us.
So now let's come back here and where are we?
So this is the one, right?
So we have seen these things and if you see in the
deployment also we have seen the service account
and in pods also we'll find the service account, right?
So if you go there and you'll find something called
in the volumes also you'll find the AWS IAM token.
All these things you can see in detail
if you run this command, right?
So if you say kubectl get pods. (typing)
Already for the deployment
you have seen the service name,
AWS load balancer controller.
But for the load balancer controller pod spec,
if you review you'll understand more and more here.
So we can take these things and say kubesystem
and this is the pod name we want, right?
So copy and this is the pod name, right?
So copy this pod name and
(typing) -O YAML.
And then you'll get the complete pod specification here
and inside that spec.volumes.name.
So if you go and then verify the volumes here, right?
You'll find something called
this respect to pod spec volumes.
So you're going to find this one,
service account token audiences sts.amazonaws.com
and if the path is going to be token
and it is going to be
the name of that token is going to be AWS IAM token.
So let's find those things.
So we'll copy this to our
something like our any of the file here and then search it.
So let me copy and come back to the visual studio core here,
remove these things, and...
now remove the first line here, whatever we have added.
And come down and remove the last line
(indistinct) MacBook Pro
and search for AWS-, IAM- token, right?
And you'll find inside the pods
inside the pod spec volumes AWS IAM token and
which is using that token here and this pod is token.
So now let's search for those things.
So you can see in the volume mounts you'll find
the mount pod, AWS IAM token.
And in our easy two instances, in value and secrets,
in so and so location, and service account,
you'll find this IAM token.
And in addition to that,
we'll also find token here.
Token and we need to find here
AWS - this is the environment file web identity token file.
And in service account
this is the path token path here value, right?
So this path we are picking here in detail.
So let's come back here.
So spec volume name, we have verified this
and we'll go to volume mounts and we have verified this.
And in web identity token also you'll find.
So these, all these things, if we put them together
you'll understand how the values are mounted
to your pod inside load balancer controller
so that the application present
inside that load balancer controller,
which is load balancer controller application,
is able to authenticate (indistinct) AWS APAs.
we can understand in detail.
But these are only for our
internals understanding how things are mounted and
all those things.
So in addition to that you have something called
"verify TLS search for AWS load balancer controller".
So these are the TLS search which we have seen earlier.
So whatever this token, whatever you have seen is
directly related to your load balancer controller, right?
So which means like,
for your load balancer controller related service account
the secret mounted to it, that one we have seen
as part of step 0-4-0-5, right?
But when you go to step 0-4-0-6
you'll find something called
"verify TLS search for AWS load balancer controller"
So this is the one we are discussing now,
AWS load balancer TLS.
So this is the secret.
So we have the 9-4-4-3 pod, which is a SSL pod running here.
So for that the certificates you are going to take
from this AWS load balancer TLS secrets.
So you can go here and then get the output of this
kubectl- and kubesystem, get that secret,
which is AWS load balancer TLS
and you'll find the TLS key and then TLS certificate.
So we'll take the certificate and then decode it and then
understand in detail.
So let me copy it here and go here
and remove this and paste it here.
And then decode, so
No, no, let me remove this.
I'll just say base64 decode.
Let me close these things and this is the certificate.
And I'll say decode and you got the certificate here, copy.
And I'll say SSLs checker cert decoder,
and decode this certificate.
And you'll find something here.
The common name of this certificate is
AWS load balancer controller.
So the WebHook service, right, is listening on 4-4-3,
and load balancer controller is listening on 9-4-4-3.
And these needs these certificates, right?
And the SAN certificate names for these things,
AWS load balancer, webhookservice.kubesystem,
and AWS load balancer
webhookservice.kubesystem.svc.
So these are the additional SAN names available
for this respect to certificate.
So that's it.
So this is another additional information
which we need to understand about port 4-4-3
and then port 9-4-4-3 for service
and ports for the AWS load balancer controller.
So if you open it and then see it in detail
if you want to go to that load balancer controller part
and go to the volume mounts and verify the mount path
for serving such there, and also verify the volumes
you'll get the additional understanding about those parts.
We really don't need to worry
or go in this deep for this respect to things
but for additional understanding,
it is always good to know more, right?
So that's the reason this 0-4-0-5 is
always optional for you,
but I have put them for additional understanding.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.
So before going to next lecture, so this is step 0-4-0-7
which will help us in uninstalling
the AWS load balancer controller.
Help, uninstall, AWS load balancer controller
from namespace, kubesystem.
So this is optional, we are not going to use it
but just for additional reference I have put it here.
So I'll see you in the next lecture
and discuss about the Ingress class concept.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.